Caption: hello hello thank you so much for
Caption: joining us in the room today
Caption: um I've got a really long bio Jamie
Caption: Butler is a lead consultant at Telstra
Caption: purple that's all you get
Caption: without further Ado here's Jamie
Caption: all right just make sure you can hear me
Caption: fantastic I think you can because I can
Caption: hear me
Caption: um welcome welcome thank you for coming
Caption: to my talk lessons from the video game
Caption: industry I am Jamie Butler the
Caption: consultant at purple as you just heard
Caption: what does that mean it means I'm quite a
Caption: generalist so Consulting I'm on
Caption: different gigs every three six months
Caption: and that's different Tech Stacks that's
Caption: different corporate environments that's
Caption: different this that and the other thing
Caption: and within that space I do all sorts as
Caption: well do Agile coaching discovering
Caption: requirements building the actual
Caption: software testing deploying Ops just a
Caption: little bit of everything so the point
Caption: that I'm making there is I'm a
Caption: generalist but I also love video games
Caption: uh and so I wanted to talk to you about
Caption: GDC the game developer conference housed
Caption: in San Francisco yearly
Caption: and I think I hit on this one because I
Caption: love video games and two because I'm
Caption: such a generalist and and there is just
Caption: so much going on with these conferences
Caption: people are delivering lessons on
Caption: leadership they're delivering lessons on
Caption: building a business from scratch they're
Caption: develop delivering lessons on cool ux
Caption: development techniques and software
Caption: development techniques so there's a
Caption: little bit of something there for
Caption: everybody and for a general generalist
Caption: like me there's tons for me to consume
Caption: so the goal here is really just to
Caption: illuminate you to the
Caption: high high value of this resource get you
Caption: consuming it and the way I'm going to do
Caption: that is just share with you a handful of
Caption: lessons that I personally learned just
Caption: from watching these GDC conference talks
Caption: um and yeah and see what we discover so
Caption: first off we have cursed problems the
Caption: idea of a cursed problem is something
Caption: that Alex Jack from Riot games kind of
Caption: put together over the last few years and
Caption: he gave a talk about it it's the idea of
Caption: your in a product development setting or
Caption: he thinks of it as a game development
Caption: setting but really it's a product
Caption: development setting where you've hit a
Caption: design problem you literally can't solve
Caption: and what you really need to do is
Caption: identify that it is an unsolvable
Caption: problem as early as you possibly can so
Caption: you don't drag your team of 10 1500
Caption: people in your company along for the
Caption: ride
Caption: so curse problem as he puts it is a core
Caption: conflict between the promises of your
Caption: product and it's important to note here
Caption: that the promises might be intended or
Caption: explicit like this is what I built my
Caption: product to do that's the point of it or
Caption: they might be derived by your users your
Caption: users might get your hand their hands on
Caption: your product and go oh this is what this
Caption: product is for not actually what you
Caption: intended for it to be and if those but
Caption: come into conflict with each other then
Caption: you cannot proceed with the design that
Caption: you've got you need a pretty
Caption: fundamentally changed the design
Caption: um and while I won't go into it Alex
Caption: provides a whole bunch of techniques for
Caption: identifying these curse problems and for
Caption: offering ways to you know make those
Caption: fundamental shifts that you need to make
Caption: if you end up in that situation and the
Caption: example of a curse problem that he gives
Caption: I give several but the one that I really
Caption: liked is you can see tucked away there
Caption: um if you're familiar with Diablo 3 at
Caption: all the Diablo 3 option house so Diablo
Caption: 3 is a looter game you use cool spells
Caption: or swinging ax and kill a whole bunch of
Caption: enemies and you get cool Loot and every
Caption: time you do you're like what'd I just
Caption: get you know is it better than what I
Caption: have before is it really awesome
Caption: legendary is it amazing and they added
Caption: this idea of an auction house where you
Caption: can
Caption: sell the loot that you've got and by
Caption: loot that you really want and what
Caption: happens there is you get this conflict
Caption: of the whole kind of core premise of
Caption: your game in one aspect it's a looter
Caption: and you should be looking forward to
Caption: that moment of finding the cool thing
Caption: that you really want be able to add an
Caption: auction house suddenly it's just
Caption: everything that I get is just something
Caption: I'm going to sell so I can save up and
Caption: buy the thing I really want and those
Caption: are fundamentally
Caption: contradictory experiences and the
Caption: solution for Diablo 3 once they realize
Caption: that they are in this position was to
Caption: just kill it they got rid of the auction
Caption: house because they they wanted to keep
Caption: was that core looter experience
Caption: and my example when I think can try and
Caption: translate it more to what I do in
Caption: product development I had to think about
Caption: um Tumblr So Tumblr was originally built
Caption: as like a blogging platform a really
Caption: simple blotting blogging platform
Caption: signing with an email suddenly you've
Caption: got a blogging platform it's really easy
Caption: to use
Caption: but what the implied promise seemed to
Caption: be from the user's perspective there's a
Caption: cool debating platform where they can
Caption: debate the fundamentals of society and
Caption: those two things are not the same one is
Caption: all about broadcasting your opinions and
Caption: one is about having a healthy back and
Caption: forth with somebody else and or in an
Caption: open forum and the way that Tumblr dealt
Caption: with that was just to kind of go oh well
Caption: this is really taking off we're going to
Caption: focus on this we're going to focus on
Caption: this back and forth and chaining blog
Caption: posts onto each other to create kind of
Caption: uh chained argument not like just a
Caption: blogging platform so there are multiple
Caption: different ways to solve a curse problem
Caption: but that's the way that Tumblr took
Caption: so next so that that's kind of a bit of
Caption: a design lesson that we can learn
Caption: um moving over a little bit to the tech
Caption: side we have uh we went from curses to
Caption: cursing weather are your tests by Kevin
Caption: Dill of cathera AI uh this guy works on
Caption: traversal program uh traversal AI so
Caption: Bots moving around a world like think
Caption: cyberpunk 2077 and all the people moving
Caption: around in it
Caption: um and this talk was pretty much just a
Caption: straight up evangelizing of unit tests
Caption: uh mentality and testing mentality which
Caption: apparently the game industry is not very
Caption: maturing they don't you know feel the
Caption: need to write automated tests all the
Caption: time so it's pretty straightforward in
Caption: that regard but the Nugget lesson that I
Caption: pulled out of this one was
Caption: um when Kevin started talking about
Caption: tests that they have to write that are
Caption: just going to take like 30 seconds or 45
Caption: seconds to run and those are kind of
Caption: annoying right they bloat your test
Caption: Suites runtime horrifically especially
Caption: you know if you're going to write one
Caption: test really what you're going to do is
Caption: write like a permutation of that test
Caption: 700 eight different versions of that
Caption: test and suddenly
Caption: just in one set of tests you've got a
Caption: four minute test Suite running and
Caption: that's kind of yuck
Caption: so the Nugget that I got from him is to
Caption: just tag those and many different
Caption: testing libraries like jest and
Caption: unit and C sharp and what have you we'll
Caption: let you tag your tests and just only run
Caption: those slow tests overnight don't run
Caption: them when you're doing your regular
Caption: building when you're doing your mergers
Caption: into master or what have you run them
Caption: overnight or just before deployment to
Caption: production whichever comes first
Caption: and that way you will come in in the
Caption: morning all that really slow testing is
Caption: done you can spot a problem if it's
Caption: there and deal with it and you get the
Caption: value of those slow tests which might be
Caption: they might need to be slow because
Caption: you're testing something that should
Caption: take a long time or they might just be
Caption: slow because you know it's a really
Caption: meaty process that you test it but yeah
Caption: a little uh Tech a bit of wisdom that I
Caption: got from that
Caption: uh next up we have something more along
Caption: the design lines so
Caption: this is going to be a common theme
Caption: you're going to keep hearing me say
Caption: there are lessons coming from every
Caption: discipline
Caption: um in GDC and this one was critiquing
Caption: game visuals common problems and how to
Caption: solve them by Ali Overton of spryfox
Caption: um and the core of the talk was just uh
Caption: figuring out how you can critique a
Caption: visual design figure out what needs to
Caption: be improved about it and then make those
Caption: improvements but I loved this talk
Caption: because I tell you what I am so bad at
Caption: this it's unreal
Caption: any time I work on a piece of software
Caption: myself and there isn't a designer
Caption: involved somebody's poor eyes will
Caption: probably bleed and I have tried to solve
Caption: this for myself many times I've just
Caption: like got a blog post and I've gone to
Caption: you know learning material to figure out
Caption: color theory I've studied color theory
Caption: got color theory down it still makes
Caption: people's eyes bleed what's going on and
Caption: this video finally got through to me and
Caption: I'm sure it would be different for
Caption: everybody but for me it was just like
Caption: the I just wasn't taking saturation into
Caption: consideration I didn't even really
Caption: understand what saturation was trying it
Caption: was getting at
Caption: um and everything I ever designed was
Caption: just like full saturation all the time
Caption: and that's why the eyes were bleeding
Caption: and now I know
Caption: um so very happy for that I mean you got
Caption: an example here of one of the little
Caption: bits that she took us through and you
Caption: can just see that the one on the left is
Caption: um really like pretty evenly desaturated
Caption: and you have to work hard to decide
Caption: what's important in that image but the
Caption: one on the right there's a bit more um
Caption: value contrast and saturation contrast
Caption: and you can see that the little man with
Caption: the sword is important maybe the tree is
Caption: important but lots of little lessons
Caption: like that stacked in there
Caption: um and now we come to war of a bit of a
Caption: leadership bit of a cultivating culture
Caption: in your business
Caption: um kind of lesson so this one was from
Caption: Victoria Tran of in a sloth the guys
Caption: that make Among Us
Caption: um Talk was called Charming your
Caption: communities and she took us through a
Caption: whole bunch of
Caption: lessons on how to create a really
Caption: positive culture and she was always
Caption: framing it in terms of the community
Caption: that is playing her game and interacting
Caption: so on socials and interacting with each
Caption: other in the game but every single
Caption: lesson that she went through I was
Caption: realizing could be applied equally well
Caption: to building the culture within your
Caption: company or within your team if you're
Caption: just like a lead developer in a team you
Caption: can use these skills to make sure that
Caption: your team is happy and healthy and
Caption: functionally engaged if you're a CEO you
Caption: can be exercising these techniques as
Caption: well
Caption: um pretty sure she got a lot of this
Caption: stuff from a book called The Power of
Caption: moments which if you have heard of it is
Caption: it worth a read but the the key things
Caption: I'll just quickly mention that she
Caption: talked about were having moments of
Caption: surprise and levity so if you're always
Caption: having to deliver the same kind of dry
Caption: email once a week of like oh here's
Caption: what's changed in our Apple release
Caption: notes or what have you insert jokes
Caption: insert little moments that people can
Caption: relate to and have a good time with
Caption: um especially the more unexpected the
Caption: better the more it will catch people and
Caption: go oh that was interesting
Caption: um moments of connectivity and empathy
Caption: so uh best example that I really enjoyed
Caption: was paying attention if somebody's
Caption: mentioned something that's going on in
Caption: their life or something they're really
Caption: really passionate about and you come
Caption: across them or you're chatting to them
Caption: two weeks later completely without
Caption: provocation just bring it up shows that
Caption: you're listening that you care that you
Caption: think about that person and they'll feel
Caption: connected to you and that will breed
Caption: this really positive warm relationship
Caption: a bit of just Rapport building really
Caption: and yeah there's one that I've forgotten
Caption: and I don't want to refer to my net so
Caption: we'll move on
Caption: um
Caption: next up we have Isabel mccard David
Caption: Richard of behavior interactive
Caption: I wanted to include this one because
Caption: there's
Caption: at least from my perspective as a
Caption: developer
Caption: I don't like to think too much about the
Caption: money or the the financial strategy of
Caption: things but you can learn those lessons
Caption: if you go and have a look at GDC so
Caption: Isabel mccard and David Richard were the
Caption: CFO and the head designer or director
Caption: from Behavior Interactive
Caption: and these guys are responsible for dead
Caption: by daylight which is uh online
Caption: multiplayer game it's free one character
Caption: one person plays a monster and another
Caption: handful of people play survivors as a
Caption: asymmetrical
Caption: um competitive game
Caption: but it's run with macro transactions
Caption: that's their profit model is monetizing
Caption: through buying skins and stuff like that
Caption: um the talk is all about
Caption: um respecting your users
Caption: being really careful to not exploit them
Caption: trying to run that business model which
Caption: is really kind of in a lot of ways
Caption: unpopular there's a lot of assumptions
Caption: baked into it that you're just kind of
Caption: going to get a crap product unless you
Caption: shill out all the time uh doing that in
Caption: a really respectful way and they come up
Caption: with a lot of techniques a lot of core
Caption: kind of vision statements about for
Caption: example
Caption: um
Caption: the the core product or by itself needs
Caption: to be completely playable enjoyable on
Caption: its own uh things that cost money should
Caption: really only add kind of aesthetic value
Caption: or Vibe shouldn't really change the core
Caption: mechanics of your product and I feel
Caption: like that's very applicable to
Caption: um you know just software as a service
Caption: products that we sell maybe we're
Caption: providing advertising or what have you
Caption: but just to do it in a respectful way
Caption: but the key quote that um Dave Richard
Caption: came out with that I latched on to and
Caption: the lesson that I really took from this
Caption: mostly was a respectful monetization
Caption: design helps to get buy-in from our Dev
Caption: team and when I heard that what I really
Caption: heard was running an ethical respectful
Caption: business gets team members on board and
Caption: giving it their best so
Caption: I'm sure we'd all love to be working in
Caption: really socially forward businesses like
Caption: carbon offsetting businesses and
Caption: environmentally positive businesses
Caption: businesses that help guys doing it tough
Caption: that kind of thing
Caption: but even if you're not even if you're in
Caption: resources or you're just working on an
Caption: entertaining product or just tech for
Caption: the sake of tech and helping people do
Caption: Tech better
Caption: as long as you're operating that
Caption: business ethically respectfully caring
Caption: about your users and caring about the
Caption: impacts that your business is having
Caption: that's the key thing and I think if you
Caption: do that people will get on board they'll
Caption: work their hardest they'll be engaged
Caption: you won't have team members that are
Caption: kind of maybe looking out the door
Caption: um and that's the lesson that I took
Caption: from that particular talk and also it
Caption: was just really interesting learning
Caption: more about monetization strategies and
Caption: what you've seen
Caption: um you know free to play games out there
Caption: and
Caption: last one in terms of lessons is data
Caption: informed decisions the champions of
Caption: League of Legends so
Caption: I know we've just finished talking about
Caption: Charming your communities and making
Caption: really positive and healthy communities
Caption: and really respecting your audience but
Caption: now we're going to talk about League of
Caption: Legends
Caption: [Music]
Caption: thank you
Caption: so it's just a fun way to learn new
Caption: stuff so I've played a lot of a lot of
Caption: League of Legends I've been that guy
Caption: I've screamed at the screen I've uh I've
Caption: not typed nasty things to my teammates I
Caption: promise
Caption: um but I really love League of Legends
Caption: anyway it's a really fun game uh seeing
Caption: red and its own funky skin there Cho gas
Caption: my favorite character
Caption: um and this talk was all just you know
Caption: all different
Caption: um fun analyzes of League of Legends
Caption: Champions
Caption: um what's popular what what they can do
Caption: analysis to decide is really pick up and
Caption: play and which characters are really
Caption: really Niche like people not many people
Caption: play them but the people that play them
Caption: absolutely love them and all different
Caption: kinds of analysis to derive those sorts
Caption: of
Caption: um insights and I'm going to be
Caption: completely honest with you data doesn't
Caption: really fill my cup and we've left my own
Caption: devices I don't generally go out there
Caption: and learn interesting data Concepts
Caption: but you slap League of Legends on it and
Caption: I will
Caption: um and true of many many other uh videos
Caption: so
Caption: um there are tons of games covered in
Caption: GDC that people love Spider-Man God of
Caption: War Little Indie games like uh oh
Caption: actually that's going to escape me I
Caption: can't point to anyone specific
Caption: um but yeah Little Indie Games all the
Caption: way up to like the big AAA games you got
Caption: the director of God of War telling you
Caption: all about what the pitch was like for
Caption: that game and how key it was that they
Caption: kept sticking to
Caption: um this idea of a father-son
Caption: relationship everything has to be driven
Caption: by that
Caption: and all of that stuff is just
Caption: entertaining to consume these videos and
Caption: in the middle of it learn some really
Caption: valuable lessons
Caption: um and that's all I really wanted to get
Caption: you guys to do here today so your next
Caption: step is to Google or not Google but
Caption: search on YouTube GDC bolt I do
Caption: specifically say don't Google it search
Caption: it on YouTube and that's because if you
Caption: Google it it you'll go to their website
Caption: and you will learn something that I've
Caption: been leaving to the very end
Caption: very expensive to get a full access
Caption: membership to GDC costs 600 a year ish
Caption: but having said that
Caption: tons of their content is on YouTube and
Caption: really probably the content that we are
Caption: interested in more in the product
Caption: development space than the game
Caption: development space
Caption: that content is more General more
Caption: applicable more kind of enticing
Caption: the stuff that's hidden behind their
Caption: paywall is more really hardcore
Caption: technical insights to say physics
Caption: engines lighting engines real game
Caption: design sorry level design interest which
Caption: while super cool if you're really
Caption: technical
Caption: um
Caption: less applicable to our work
Caption: um so yeah search GDC Vault on YouTube
Caption: and have a good time and
Caption: I just want to say before I wrap up
Caption: thank you very much to our sponsors
Caption: especially Telstra but no I'm kidding um
Caption: I work for Telstra careful as you recall
Caption: but no yeah all our sponsors um I
Caption: wouldn't be able to have my kid in that
Caption: um crash right now getting looked after
Caption: if it weren't for them so thank you very
Caption: much to them uh and that is it for me
Caption: cool
Caption: hello hello oh wow that's working um we
Caption: have one minute and this is a big room
Caption: to exit and enter I'm gonna see if
Caption: there's one short question out there
Caption: because Jamie's a Fountain of Knowledge
Caption: here anyone going to go for a really
Caption: quick question
Caption: no I'm sure you'll be around for the
Caption: afternoon so thank you Jamie everyone no
Caption: worries thank you very much